README.md, before:

# Ansible Role: Shorewall

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Myatu/ansible-shorewall.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Myatu/ansible-shorewall)

## Description

Ansible role which installs and configures [Shorewall](http://shorewall.org/) and Shorewall6.

## Installation

```
$ ansible-galaxy install Myatu.shorewall
```

## Requirements

Ansible version 2.0 or better.

## Role Handlers

Name | Description
--- | ---
`enable shorewall`, `enable shorewall6` | Enables and starts Shorewall / Shorewall 6
`restart shorewall`, `restart shorewall6` | Restarts Shorewall / Shorewall6

## Role Variables

*Note:* The Shorewall (IPv4) variables are prefixed by `shorewall_`, whereas the Shorewall6 (IPv6) variables are prefixed by `shorewall6_`.

Variable | Dictionary / Options
--- | ---
shorewall_package_state | "present", "latest", "absent".
shorewall_startup | "1" or "0"
shorewall_conf | *this variable uses standard option / value pairs*
shorewall_interfaces | `zone`, `interface`, `options`
shorewall_zones | `zone`, `type`, `options`, `options_in`, `options_out`
shorewall_policies | `source`, `dest`, `policy`, `log_level`, `burst_limit`, `conn_limit`
shorewall_rules | **sections**: `section`, **rules**: `rule`.  For each **rule**: `comment`, `action`, `source`, `dest`, `proto`, `dest_port`, `source_port`, `original_dest`, `rate_limit`, `user_group`, `mark`, `connlimit`, `time`, `headers`, `switch`, `helper`, `when`
shorewall_masq | `interface`, `source`, `address`, `proto`, `ports`, `ipsec`, `mark`, `user`, `switch`, `original_dest`
shorewall_tunnels | `type`, `zone`, `gateway`, `gateway_zone`
shorewall_hosts | `zone`, `hosts`, `options`
shorewall_params | [ `import` | `name`, `value` ] **imports are processed first then name/value pairs**


### shorewall_package_state - Shorewall package state

See the Ansible [package module](http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/package_module.html) information for more details. 

It allows you to control whether Shorewall and dependencies should be either installed (*"present"*), installed / upgraded to their most recent version (*"latest"*) or should be removed (*"absent"*).

### shorewall_startup - Shorewall startup behaviour

This updates the `/etc/default/shorewall` file's `startup` option to either enable (*"1"*) startup (using the `service` or `systemctl` commands) or disable it (*"0"*).

### shorewall_conf - Shorewall Configuration

Specify values for global Shorewall options in the `/etc/shorewall/shorewall.conf` file. See the Shorewall [shorewall.conf man page](http://shorewall.org/manpages/shorewall.conf.html) for more details.

Each shorewall.conf option may be written in lower-case, such as `ACCEPT_DEFAULT=none
` can be written as `accept_default: "none"` in the variables.

#### Example

```yaml
shorewall_conf:
  verbosity: "1"
  log_verbosity: "2"
  logfile: "/var/log/messages"
  blacklist: "\"NEW,INVALID,UNTRACKED\""
  blacklist_disposition: "DROP"
```

### shorewall_interfaces - Interfaces

Define the interfaces on the system and optionally associate them with zones in the `/etc/shorewall/interfaces` file. See the Shorewall [interfaces man page](http://www.shorewall.net/manpages/shorewall-interfaces.html) for more details.

#### Example

```yaml
shorewall_interfaces:
  - { zone: net, interface: eth0, options: "dhcp,tcpflags,logmartians,nosmurfs,sourceroute=0" }
```

### shorewall_zones - Zones

Declare Shorewall zones in the `/etc/shorewall/zones` file. See the Shorewall [zones man page](http://www.shorewall.net/manpages/shorewall-zones.html) for more details.

#### Example

```yaml
shorewall_zones:
  - { zone: fw, type: firewall }
  - { zone: net, type: ipv4 }
```

### shorewall_policies - Policies

Define high-level policies for connections between zones in the `/etc/shorewall/policies`. See the Shorewall [policy man page](http://www.shorewall.net/manpages/shorewall-policy.html) for more details.

#### Example

```yaml
shorewall_policies:
  - { source: "$FW", dest: all, policy: ACCEPT }
  - { source: net, dest: all, policy: REJECT }
  - { source: all, dest: all, policy: REJECT, log_level: info }
```

### shorewall_rules - Rules

Specify exceptions to policies, including DNAT and REDIRECT in the `/etc/shorewall/rules` file. See the Shorewall [rules man page](http://www.shorewall.net/manpages/shorewall-rules.html) for more details.

***WARNING***: Please be sure to include a rule for SSH on the correct port, to avoid locking Ansible - and yourself - out from the remote host.

#### Using the `when` conditional

An option specific to this role variable. and not part of Shorewall, is the `when` conditional. This allows a rule to be included only if the condition evaluates to True.

#### Examples

```yaml
shorewall_rules:
  - section: NEW
    rules:
    - { action: "Invalid(DROP)", source: net, dest: "$FW", proto: tcp }
    - { action: ACCEPT, source: net, dest: "$FW", proto: tcp, dest_port: ssh }
    - { action: ACCEPT, source: net, dest: "$FW", proto: icmp, dest_port: echo-request }
```

Using the `when` conditional:

```yaml
has_webserver: True

# And in a task:
#- name: Disable webserver rule
#  set_fact:
#    has_webserver: False

shorewall_rules:
  - section: NEW
    rules:
    - { action: "Invalid(DROP)", source: net, dest: "$FW", proto: tcp }
    - { action: ACCEPT, source: net, dest: "$FW", proto: tcp, dest_port: ssh }
    - { action: "HTTP(ACCEPT)", source: net, dest: "$FW", when: "{{ has_webserver }}" }

```


### shorewall_masq - Masquerade/SNAT

Define Masquerade/SNAT in the `/etc/shorewall/masq` file. See the Shorewall [masq man page](http://shorewall.org/manpages/shorewall-masq.html) for more details.

### shorewall_tunnels - Tunnels

Define VPN connections with endpoints on the firewall in the `/etc/shorewall/tunnels` file.  See the Shorewall [tunnels man page](http://shorewall.net/manpages/shorewall-tunnels.html) for more details.

#### Example

```yaml
shorewall_tunnels:
  - { type: ipsec, zone: net, gateway: "0.0.0.0/0", gateway_zones: "vpn1,vpn2" }
```

### shorewall_hosts - Hosts

Define multiple zones accessed through a single interface in the `/etc/shorewall/hosts` file. See the Shorewall [hosts man page](http://shorewall.org/manpages/shorewall-hosts.html) for more details.
 
### shorewall_params - Parameters

Assign any shell variables that you need in the `/etc/shorewall/params` file. See the Shorewall [params man page](http://shorewall.org/manpages/shorewall-params.html) for more details.

#### Example
```yaml
shorewall_params:
  - { import: '/path/file' }
  - { name: 'server', value: '10.0.0.1' }
```
 
## Example Playbook

```yml
- hosts: all
  roles:
     - Myatu.shorewall
```

## Changelog

### v1.0.3

- Added: The `shorewall_rules` has an added option `when` for each rule, which acts similar to Ansible's `when` statement and allows rules to be conditional.
- Added: role variable `shorewall_tunnels` for use with VPNs.
- *Changed:* The generated `shorewall_rules` will now take into account the `?` prefix in sections (i.e. `?ESTABLISHED`), which was introduced at Shorewall version 4.6. If the Shorewall version installed is older than 4.6, this prefix will be omitted to avoid errors.

### v1.0

- Added: `ipset` as a package dependency;
- Added: role variable `shorewall_conf`, allowing each option in the shorewall.conf file to be defined;
- Added: role variable `shorewall_package_state` to set package state of Shorewall and dependencies;
- *Changed:* The default for `shorewall_interface` now detects the default network interface rather than fixed at `eth0` (though `eth0` is still a fall-back default);
- **Removed:** role variables: `shorewall_verbosity`, `shorewall_log_verbosity`.  Use the `shorewall_conf` role variable to configure these instead.




## Author

* [Michael Green](http://myatus.com)
* [Simon Bärlocher](https://sbaerlocher.ch)
* Farhad Shahbazi
* Sascha Biberhofer
 
## License

This project is under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for the full license text.

## Copyright

- Copyright (c) 2017 Michael Green
- Copyright (c) 2016 Simon Bärlocher

Commit message:

Big rewrite of Templates, and Tasks and default Shorewall conf vars files, fix broke Shorewall6 tasks, bump to ver 2.0

README.md, after:

# Ansible Role: Shorewall

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Myatu/ansible-shorewall.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Myatu/ansible-shorewall)

## Description

Ansible role which installs and configures [Shorewall](http://shorewall.org/) and Shorewall6.

## Installation

```
$ ansible-galaxy install Myatu.shorewall
```

## Requirements

Ansible version 2.0 or better.

## Role Handlers

Name | Description
--- | ---
`enable shorewall`, `enable shorewall6` | Enables and starts Shorewall / Shorewall 6
`restart shorewall`, `restart shorewall6` | Restarts Shorewall / Shorewall6

## Role Variables

*Note:* The Shorewall (IPv4) variables are prefixed by `shorewall_`, whereas the Shorewall6 (IPv6) variables are prefixed by `shorewall6_`.

Variable | Dictionary / Options
--- | ---
shorewall_package_state | "present", "latest", "absent".
shorewall_startup | "1" or "0"
shorewall_conf | *this variable uses standard option / value pairs*
shorewall_interfaces | `zone`, `interface`, `options`
shorewall_zones | `zone`, `type`, `options`, `options_in`, `options_out`
shorewall_policies | `source`, `dest`, `policy`, `log_level`, `burst_limit`, `conn_limit`
shorewall_rules | **sections**: `section`, **rules**: `rule`.  For each **rule**: `comment`, `action`, `source`, `dest`, `proto`, `dest_port`, `source_port`, `original_dest`, `rate_limit`, `user_group`, `mark`, `connlimit`, `time`, `headers`, `switch`, `helper`, `when`
shorewall_masq | `interface`, `source`, `address`, `proto`, `ports`, `ipsec`, `mark`, `user`, `switch`, `original_dest`
shorewall_tunnels | `type`, `zone`, `gateway`, `gateway_zone`
shorewall_hosts | `zone`, `hosts`, `options`
shorewall_params | [ `import` | `name`, `value` ] **imports are processed first then name/value pairs**


### shorewall_package_state - Shorewall package state

See the Ansible [package module](http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/package_module.html) information for more details. 

It allows you to control whether Shorewall and dependencies should be either installed (*"present"*), installed / upgraded to their most recent version (*"latest"*) or should be removed (*"absent"*).

### shorewall_startup - Shorewall startup behaviour

This updates the `/etc/default/shorewall` file's `startup` option to either enable (*"1"*) startup (using the `service` or `systemctl` commands) or disable it (*"0"*).

### shorewall_conf - Shorewall Configuration

Specify values for global Shorewall options in the `/etc/shorewall/shorewall.conf` file. See the Shorewall [shorewall.conf man page](http://shorewall.org/manpages/shorewall.conf.html) for more details.

Each shorewall.conf option may be written in lower-case, such as `ACCEPT_DEFAULT=none
` can be written as `accept_default: "none"` in the variables.

#### Example

```yaml
shorewall_conf:
  verbosity: "1"
  log_verbosity: "2"
  logfile: "/var/log/messages"
  blacklist: "\"NEW,INVALID,UNTRACKED\""
  blacklist_disposition: "DROP"
```

### shorewall_interfaces - Interfaces

Define the interfaces on the system and optionally associate them with zones in the `/etc/shorewall/interfaces` file. See the Shorewall [interfaces man page](http://www.shorewall.net/manpages/shorewall-interfaces.html) for more details.

#### Example

```yaml
shorewall_interfaces:
  - { zone: net, interface: eth0, options: "dhcp,tcpflags,logmartians,nosmurfs,sourceroute=0" }
```

### shorewall_zones - Zones

Declare Shorewall zones in the `/etc/shorewall/zones` file. See the Shorewall [zones man page](http://www.shorewall.net/manpages/shorewall-zones.html) for more details.

#### Example

```yaml
shorewall_zones:
  - { zone: fw, type: firewall }
  - { zone: net, type: ipv4 }
```

### shorewall_policies - Policies

Define high-level policies for connections between zones in the `/etc/shorewall/policies`. See the Shorewall [policy man page](http://www.shorewall.net/manpages/shorewall-policy.html) for more details.

#### Example

```yaml
shorewall_policies:
  - { source: "$FW", dest: all, policy: ACCEPT }
  - { source: net, dest: all, policy: REJECT }
  - { source: all, dest: all, policy: REJECT, log_level: info }
```

### shorewall_rules - Rules

Specify exceptions to policies, including DNAT and REDIRECT in the `/etc/shorewall/rules` file. See the Shorewall [rules man page](http://www.shorewall.net/manpages/shorewall-rules.html) for more details.

***WARNING***: Please be sure to include a rule for SSH on the correct port, to avoid locking Ansible - and yourself - out from the remote host.

#### Using the `when` conditional

An option specific to this role variable. and not part of Shorewall, is the `when` conditional. This allows a rule to be included only if the condition evaluates to True.

#### Examples

```yaml
shorewall_rules:
  - section: NEW
    rules:
    - { action: "Invalid(DROP)", source: net, dest: "$FW", proto: tcp }
    - { action: ACCEPT, source: net, dest: "$FW", proto: tcp, dest_port: ssh }
    - { action: ACCEPT, source: net, dest: "$FW", proto: icmp, dest_port: echo-request }
```

Using the `when` conditional:

```yaml
has_webserver: True

# And in a task:
#- name: Disable webserver rule
#  set_fact:
#    has_webserver: False

shorewall_rules:
  - section: NEW
    rules:
    - { action: "Invalid(DROP)", source: net, dest: "$FW", proto: tcp }
    - { action: ACCEPT, source: net, dest: "$FW", proto: tcp, dest_port: ssh }
    - { action: "HTTP(ACCEPT)", source: net, dest: "$FW", when: "{{ has_webserver }}" }

```


### shorewall_masq - Masquerade/SNAT

Define Masquerade/SNAT in the `/etc/shorewall/masq` file. See the Shorewall [masq man page](http://shorewall.org/manpages/shorewall-masq.html) for more details.

### shorewall_tunnels - Tunnels

Define VPN connections with endpoints on the firewall in the `/etc/shorewall/tunnels` file.  See the Shorewall [tunnels man page](http://shorewall.net/manpages/shorewall-tunnels.html) for more details.

#### Example

```yaml
shorewall_tunnels:
  - { type: ipsec, zone: net, gateway: "0.0.0.0/0", gateway_zones: "vpn1,vpn2" }
```

### shorewall_hosts - Hosts

Define multiple zones accessed through a single interface in the `/etc/shorewall/hosts` file. See the Shorewall [hosts man page](http://shorewall.org/manpages/shorewall-hosts.html) for more details.
 
### shorewall_params - Parameters

Assign any shell variables that you need in the `/etc/shorewall/params` file. See the Shorewall [params man page](http://shorewall.org/manpages/shorewall-params.html) for more details.

#### Example
```yaml
shorewall_params:
  - { import: '/path/file' }
  - { name: 'server', value: '10.0.0.1' }
```
 
## Example Playbook

```yml
- hosts: all
  roles:
     - Myatu.shorewall
```

## Changelog

### v2.0
- Massive rewrite and cleanup of Templates, and Vars files and Tasks for both Shorewall and Shorewall6
- Add templates for missing Shorewall(6) config files eg tcinterfaces rtrules
- Fix up broken Shorewall6 tasks
- Add working dead mans switch for both Shorewall and Shorewall6
- Shorewall(6) Templates now generate templates like the factory Shorewall templates instead of wall of text

### v1.0.3

- Added: The `shorewall_rules` has an added option `when` for each rule, which acts similar to Ansible's `when` statement and allows rules to be conditional.
- Added: role variable `shorewall_tunnels` for use with VPNs.
- *Changed:* The generated `shorewall_rules` will now take into account the `?` prefix in sections (i.e. `?ESTABLISHED`), which was introduced at Shorewall version 4.6. If the Shorewall version installed is older than 4.6, this prefix will be omitted to avoid errors.

### v1.0

- Added: `ipset` as a package dependency;
- Added: role variable `shorewall_conf`, allowing each option in the shorewall.conf file to be defined;
- Added: role variable `shorewall_package_state` to set package state of Shorewall and dependencies;
- *Changed:* The default for `shorewall_interface` now detects the default network interface rather than fixed at `eth0` (though `eth0` is still a fall-back default);
- **Removed:** role variables: `shorewall_verbosity`, `shorewall_log_verbosity`.  Use the `shorewall_conf` role variable to configure these instead.




## Author

* [Michael Green](http://myatus.com)
* [Simon Bärlocher](https://sbaerlocher.ch)
* Farhad Shahbazi
* Sascha Biberhofer
 
## License

This project is under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for the full license text.

## Copyright

- Copyright (c) 2017 Michael Green
- Copyright (c) 2016 Simon Bärlocher
